Hello everyone and welcome to k means clustering with our video lecture.
This video lecture learn how to implement Kamins clustering algorithm with R and we'll be working with
the iris data set that we've seen before where you had four features of flowers they're peddling pedal
widths etc. and we're trying to predict one out of three species.
In this case in this case means is an unsupervised learning algorithm.
Let's go over a few caveats as to using the iris data set.
Keep in mind that although we already have the labels for the iris data set we won't actually let the
Kamins algorithm see those labels.
The Kamins algorithm doesn't take in labels it just takes in the features and tries to create clusters
based off the cave Valley.
You say for Kamins algorithm we will only use these labels later to evaluate how well the algorithm
actually clustered the correct values.
You should note that usually you don't have the luxury of label data when you're using an unsupervised
learning algorithm such as k means clustering but since we're trying to learn about Kamins clustering
we'll go ahead and keep the labels out so we can use them to check how well we did later on.
All right let's go ahead and jump to our studio to get started.
All right here we're our studio.
I'm going to go ahead and call the ISO our library
and then just print out the head of the iris data set so we can remind ourselves what it looks like
.
Notice we get see blank Sipple with pedaling pedal with and then the species label.
And as I just mentioned one reason that Kamins algorithms it's unsupervised we're only going to allow
it to see the features.
Usually you won't have an actual label or species column but in this case we can use this to our advantage
just to see how well the Kamins clustering algorithm actually perform.
Let's go ahead and just plot out this data.
A quick scatterplot to get an idea of what we might expect when trying to cluster these species of flowers
.
I'm going to call Egidia plot two and say G-G plot.
Iris
pasand pedal length fonix paddle with on y.
And the note that the color is going to be equal to species going to go ahead and set.
That's a P.L..
And then and going to Prince P.L. Plus GM underscore points.
And I'm going to go ahead to make the size of those points a little bigger for let's go ahead and run
this and get the plot out.
All right here's a plot and a click zoom so we can see it.
OK just looking at this plot quickly we can see that the Tosa species itself is much more separated
than the versicolor and virginica species based off of pedal length and pedal with.
That means we're actually creating the Kamins clustering algorithm implementation Kamins clustering
is probably going to have an easier time clustering.
Tosa altogether versus virginica and versicolor this noise or this crossover over here between versicolor
virginica are green and blue is probably going to lead to some clustering mistakes when we actually
check out the labels.
But again I should note we usually don't have the luxury of knowing those labels before hand for unsupervised
learning algorithms.
OK we explore that data a little bit.
Let's get on to the meat of the lecture which is actually implementing Kamins clustering and to do this
in the con..
First thing I want to know is since K means clustering randomly starts the centroid and randomly assigns
points in order to get the same clusters.
I do go ahead and set your random seed to 101.
That means just put in set that seed 1 0 1 the K means function is already built into the stats library
of R.
So you don't need to download or install any other package on them to make an object called Iris dot
.
Well to say Iris cluster.
You can call this whatever you want and this will actually be the case means implementation.
We're going to go ahead and pass pass in our data.
Remember since this is an unsupervised learning algorithm.
Your data would usually not have a label.
That means I want to go ahead and just pasand the first four columns.
Second to say comma one colon for and then the next argument you put in is centers and centers.
It's just your K value.
How many clusters or cluster centers do you actually expect.
We're fortunate that we know it.
We expect three species.
However a lot of times you're not going to know how many labels or clusters you would expect.
That means you're gonna have to use your domain knowledge or business experience to choose a reasonable
value.
OK we're going to go ahead and put in 3 there and then something else we can put in is and start and
start.
It's just the random or the number of random starts we can do which is go ahead and put in 20.
All right we have clusters.
We can go ahead and prints out the iris cluster object and we'll get a bunch of information off of it
.
Note that we get the cluster means for each of the features.
We have three clusters here.
Now also tells you how many points are in each cluster.
62 50 38.
We have the cluster means we are the clustering vector.
We also get back the cluster sum of squares by cluster and we get the available components for the actual
object.
If we want to evaluate how well are clustering algorithm actually performed we can check it against
the actual labels that we know to be true.
And that means you can call something like table Irus cluster call the cluster column and then check
it against Iris species column the label and notice you get these results.
It looks like we mislabeled a few of them but also noticed just like we thought the Tosa were all labeled
into a single class.
Now this is cluster number two.
Again you should note here that the clusters here are n named but we can tell since we already know
the labels.
That it looks like cluster 3 is what k means thought were most of the virginica flowers closer to the
Kamins algorithm thought this a total flowers were and Heyman's group cluster one was the versicolor
flowers although there was some noise between virginica and versicolor.
However it was able to cluster a Tosa all correctly and I know I've said this a couple of times already
but usually you won't have the luxury of knowing these labels and you're not quilt to call a table like
this when you're using unsupervised learning algorithms.
Let's go ahead and briefly briefly discuss cluster visualization.
You can plot out these clusters on just two of the features and I will show you how to do that.
Let me go to and clear this.
You can call the cluster library and there's a function called clus plots and clus plot just draws a
two dimensional clustering plot and it just has a generic partitioning method.
Let me go ahead and show what that looks like.
You're going to call clus plot which is from the cluster of library you can pass in the data.
In this case in a pass in are labeled data so we can actually see the true points and then which can
also do is passen our iris cluster cluster argument and then add some additional arguments here we can
go ahead and put color equal.
True we can add some shade equals true and we'll go ahead and say labels equals zero and lines equals
zero.
And that's just some formatting stuff for the actual plot function.
And then when you call clus plot you should get a plot that looks something like this.
And basically what this is doing is its plotting the cluster's against the two components that explain
the most variability.
And that means this component one component to these two components explain about ninety five point
zero two points per percent of the variable.
And clearly here we can see the Tosa cluster.
It's all by itself it is clearly just state one cluster and then we see some crossing of the clusters
between the virginica and versicolor species of flowers and you can go ahead and explore more about
this clus plot library if you want to.
By saying Help clus plot and you can check out the documentation.
This is basically just a buy very plot device.
You could also have done with G.G. plot.
I should note though it's not going to be super useful for you if you have a data set with a ton of
features because you can only really plot two features at a time.
On to them missional plot.
That means if you have something like 50 features you may only be explaining 20 percent of the variability
with two features but close.
Plot attempts to do is plot against the two features that explain the most variability.
All right.
Hope those useful to you.
But remember the main idea is just how to use the means function and if you ever need more help on that
you can just say help Kamins.
All right thanks everyone and I will see you at the next lecture where we will be discussing your project
for the Kamins clustering section of this course.